So over the last lectures we ensure that we can get and delete places,
so now if we login here and we press find place, we get the places and we can also delete them successfully
here as you see because if I now log in again, this second place indeed should be gone
and it is but one thing we don't really take care of is that we also can add places because there, we're
not only communicating with the firebase database but also with our own cloud function.
So we need to ensure that we actually do check for authentication there too,
now let's write the code we need for that.
Let's go to our index.js file in the functions folder which is where our cloud function code lives
and there I now want to find out whether the user is authenticated or not.
Now it's totally up to you on how we check this,
I will set up a check where I don't actually parse some query parameter in the url though we could
do this but I want to have an authorization header.
So I'll first of all add an if check here and check if we don't have a request header, so in the request headers
object which will be there,
this request we're getting from firebase will have a headers object,
if we don't have an authorization header in there or additionally another thing where I would want
to fail or not succeed in this if statement here,
I also want to check if we don't have an authorization header that starts with bearer because I want
to have this typical authorization header with bearer and then your token.
So even if we have an authorization header that doesn't fit this schema, I want it to fail.
So these are two things, two checks where I want to actually fail if I either have no token or the wrong one
basically or no header or the wrong one.
In these cases, I'll console log no token present or whatever you want, just an internal log and I'll
respond with a status of 403
for Access Denied and basically send a json object back where we could add an error object which is
a message maybe where we say unauthorized.
Now this logic is totally up to you, it depends on what you want to use on the frontend
and thereafter important, I'll return to not execute any other code because just setting the response
alone won't quit this function.
If we make it after this if statement, it means we will have some form of header,
so now I can get my token,
I can now set ID token equal to and now get my request headers authorization header and split it after
the bearer part,
so bearer then a whitespace and then I want to get the first element of the resulting array which
will be the part after that,
so that will be our token. That token doesn't necessarily have to be valid though,
now thankfully firebase offers us a tool we can use to validate it
and this is a tool we don't even have to install,
it's included by default.
We can store it in a constant named admin and require it from firebase admin, this is an extra package which
is provided for any firebase cloud function.
It gives us some admin functionality and one of them is to verify tokens, to see if they are valid,
for that we need firebase help because firebase was what created the token.
Now for the admin toolkit here to work, we need to initialize it though,
I'll do that after initialising Google Cloud Storage, I'll execute admin initialize app and to initialize
app, we need to pass at least one argument here for our purposes,
the credential property which should be admin and there credential and there, the cert function and to
that function here, you'll simply pass your file here, your key file.
Now to this function, we can't just pass a path though,
instead we should require the file to essentially import it.
So awesome-places.json like this,
I'm requiring it here
and I'm then sending this to this cert function and this should initialize my admin toolkit here. With
it initialized,
I can go down here where we got the token which we now want to verify, I'll call admin auth and then verify
ID token and pass the token to it.
Now that's an asynchronous task,
so I'll actually chain a then call here where we would have the decoded token and we only get here
if it's valid.
Now this is essentially where I want to continue with my other code where I get the body, store my file and
upload my file.
So all the other code here which comes thereafter should go into this then block because I only want
to execute it if we do have a valid token, that's super important and we could get some data from the
token like user ID if we needed that here,
I don't do here but it's an important thing for you to keep in mind.
So we only make it here if we did succeed, of course that means that at the very end of everything,
so after this then block here essentially,
I'll add a catch handler where we get an error,
here we are if we extracted some token from our header but it's invalid,
there I can console log token is invalid
and I can then send a response with status 403 because we're not granting access with a json
object maybe where we set the error to unauthorized or whatever you want, you could send an error code
here, whatever you need.
So now we have our cloud function updated,
we can now run firebase deploy to ship it to our firebase project, to the server,
so that in future requests, we actually use it. Now in the next lecture,
we'll also update our frontend to ensure that there, we do set this header which we try to extract
in the cloud function,
so this authorization header. Let's do that in the next lectures.